---
title: Forecasting for 2023
date: 2023-01-04
categories: [Invest]
tags: [invest, forecast, economy, inflation]
---

## Why bother to forecast
Forecasting for the future is fun. Not to mention the great sense of accomplishment comes after it when you realize you made accurate predictions. Also, forecasting skills are essential for investing, even though legendry investors like Howard Marks may not agree with what I said.
Imagine this: you are a value investor just like Howard Marks. You look for deeply undervalued stocks in the markets and buy them, hoping their market price will eventually reflect their net asset values. Unavoidably, you still have to make predictions about the future: how's the geopolitical environment going? Is the company going to sustain its business healthily? Any potential threats to the business from policy changes? Those are something you cannot avoid to consider.

## My forecast for 2023
1. S&P 600 will outperform S&P 500
2. S&P 500 will hit 4400 at anytime of 2023
3. US CPI YOY will plunge below 3% by year end
4. No NBER-defined recession in the US

### 1. S&P 600 will outperform S&P 500
confidence: medium

Small caps have never been cheaper in the recent decades. Forward P/E of S&P 600 is around 13 while S&P 500 is 17. It gives a huge buffer for the small cap business to underperform, as people has no hope on it anyway. One of the biggest reason for large cap to fly since GFC in 2008 is globalization. Companies in S&P 500 often have international exposures. Their manufacturing process was moved to other countries for obvious reason: cost cutting. Therefore, profit margins has been skyrocketing since then, as well as valuation.

### 2. S&P 500 will hit 4400 at anytime of 2023
confidence: low

Last year's S&P 500 did not perform well. Not to mention bonds. I start to see value from some of the S&P 500 components, especially mid caps and small caps. US 10Y TIPS yield is hovering around 1.3%-1.6% for 3 months. No news is good news. Sentiment is pessimistic enough for me to expect a big rally this year. Meanwhile Technology, contributing approximately 25% of S&P 500, has declined considerably thanks to the surge of risk free rate. The target of 4400 isn't actually supported by the corporate profits, but more like reversal of sentiment on the hope for rate cuts.

### 3. US CPI YOY will come below 3% by year end
confidence: medium

Last US CPI was released on Dec 13, 2022. Energy cost continuous to come down, as well as vehicles. As expected, shelter and food remain firm. Yet, Headline CPI QoQ annualized has already come down to 3.74%. This also mean that, starting from year 2023, CPI YoY will come down in a strong way because of the base effect. In fact, I think the best time for FED to stop rate hikes is now. But i will let that be the topic of my next post.

### 4. No NBER-defined recession in the US
confidence: low

This is going to be a big topic for another blog post. I will go through that if time allows. The reason why i'm having low confidence on this is, recession will only be caused by faulty monetary policy, which is highly uncertain and hard to forecast. However, recession can be avioded if Fed is playing their cards right.

Lastly, to be frank, I don't expect my predictions to be accurate. But this post will definitely be fun to watch when year 2023 ends.