---
title: The world is giving chatGPT too much credit
date: 2023-02-17
categories: [AI]
tags: [AI, chatGPT, NLP, LLM, Bing, openAI]
---

Like everyone else, I was amazed by the capabilities of ChatGPT: it can answer questions almost instantly, capture long-term memory, and even help me code. However, unlike most of you who think it's an evolutionary technology, it isn't. There are many tasks that large language models (LLMs) still cannot replace.

According to the paper "Attention is all you need" by Vaswani et al. in 2017, ChatGPT is said to be able to handle any task assigned by humans as long as it's text-related. I have attended many seminars where people talk about how ChatGPT or AI, in general, will replace the workforce in various industries such as marketing, teaching, law, and even programming!

During the first few days of using ChatGPT, I was impressed with its capabilities because I only asked simple questions. What are simple questions? Exactly, "what." Questions like "What is causal determinism?" or "On what day did Michael Jackson die?" can be answered with no difficulty. These topics are widely covered on the internet already (even causal determinism is popular in its own field). Classic NLP problems such as sentiment analysis and text summarization can also be handled with no sweat.

And then the story gets interesting. My colleague was using ChatGPT for head-related transfer function (HRTF) research. He got a list of made-up research articles: fake article names, fake authors, or even fake journals. In fact, you don't have to go deep about a certain topic. I asked ChatGPT how to find if a year is a U.S. presidential year with Python Pandas. It gave me a function to find a leap year instead. And many more examples that you may have heard of.

Having ChatGPT do your task is like having an excellent junior executive do everything for you. Although fast and impressive, you may still need to be a good manager to give the right commands and verify their work. It will not take our jobs in the way that most people think it will be. Photoshop is a great tool to retouch our photos. Does it take away the photographer's job? It replaces those who can't follow the trend and learn the new tools. Not to mention blue-collar workers, we are still many years away from having intelligent, interactive, and most importantly, affordable robots to replace construction workers.

*Grammar checked by chatGPT.*