---
title: The best time for Fed to stop rate hikes is now
date: 2023-01-31
categories: [Invest]
tags: [invest, economy, inflation, Fed]
---

The Federal Reserve began its historic journey of rate hikes in March 2022, starting with a 25-basis-point increase. The goal was clear: to tame inflation. Since then, the Fed has never stopped rate hiking. Now, the Fed funds rate is at 4.25%-4.50%, and it is time for the Fed to stop and evaluate the possible impacts on the economy.

## contracting economy

The manufacturing sector is currently facing a difficult period, as evidenced by the ISM Manufacturing PMI. It has seen a steady decline since November 2021. In December 2022, the PMI fell to 48.4, a decrease of 0.6 points from last month's 49.0. This further reinforces the ongoing contractionary trend in the manufacturing sector since November 2021, when the PMI recorded 60.6 points. A widening negative new orders-to-inventories spread is also not encouraging to the economy. This spread, which was -3.7 (47.2, 50.9) in the previous quarter, has now widened to -6.6 (45.2, 51.8). This signals an overall decrease in demand for manufactured goods and could have a significant impact on the industry in the near future.

On the other hand, Services PMI results have revealed that the index has dropped below 50 for the first time since 2020. Historically, it's rare for the Services PMI to go below this mark, indicating a weak performance of this sector in recent times. The survey also revealed that new orders have plunged by 10.8 points from 56.0 to 45.2. This suggests a sharp contraction in demand for services. Business environment does not look pretty.

On January 27, 2021, the Baltic Dry Index reached 676 points, which was about pre-COVID level. This remarkable milestone is a reminder of how far the global shipping industry has come since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decrease in Baltic Dry reflects the fact that supply chain disruptions seen after 2020 have been greatly relieved, as well as how the demand side has been cooled off. 

## promising disinflation

Recent data from the US CPI has shown a cooling trend in most areas of the economy, except food and shelter. For food, it is likely due to a combination of factors including food being seen as a basic necessity for survival, the ongoing conflict between Ukraine and Russia, and global climate change. All three of these issues are expected to cause food prices to remain resilient in the near future. Monetary measures are not particularly effective to tame food costs down.

Besides, CPI is often an lagging indicator for measuring the cost of housing due to the fact that it takes 1 year for current lease contract to roll over into a new one. High relocation and renovation costs, such as labour cost and material cost, were keeping the tenants to stay even through rent had been climbing up. Yet, in fact, there has been a consistent downward trend in housing costs over time, as evidenced by Zillow Observed Rent Index and S&P National Home Price index, where were peaked in Feb and Mar 2022 respectively, and have been continuing to decline since then.

## Fed being the major risk

Fed should move on from taming inflation, into keeping the economy healthy. I don't think there is any reason to keep raising interest rate in year 2023, not to mention to achieve so-called 5% terminal rate as some may suggest. Inflation will not be the reason for US go into recession, but monetary policy.